Refactor deployment docs and tutorials (#10726)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/source/deployment/deploy-model-to-kubernetes/tutorial.rst

Develop ML model with MLflow and deploy to Kubernetes
=====================================================

.. note::

  This tutorial assumes that you have access to a Kubernetes cluster. However, you can also complete this tutorial on your local machine
  by using local cluster emulation tools such as `Kind <https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start>`_ or `Minikube <https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/>`_.

This guide demonstrates how to use MLflow end-to-end for:

- Training a linear regression model with `MLflow Tracking <../../../tracking.html>`_.

> - Conducting hyper arameter tuning to find the best model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Conducting hyper-parameter tuning to find the best model.
```

> - Packaging the model weight and dependencies as an `MLflow Model <../../../models.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Packaging the model weights and dependencies as an `MLflow Model <../../../models.html>`_.
```

- Testing model serving locally with `mlserver <https://mlserver.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ using the `mlflow models serve <../../../cli.html#mlflow-models-serve>`_ command.
- Deploying the model to a Kubernetes cluster using `KServe <https://kserve.github.io/website/>`_ with MLflow.

> We will cover end-to-end model developemnt process including model training and testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will cover an end-to-end model development process including model training and testing within this tutorial.
```

> However, if you already have a model and just want to learn how to deploy it to Kubernetes, you can skip to :ref:`Step 6 - Test Model Serving Locally <step-6-test-model-serving-locally>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have a model and simply want to learn how to deploy it to Kubernetes, you can skip to :ref:`Step 6 - Test Model Serving Locally <step-6-test-model-serving-locally>`
```

Introduction: Scalable Model Serving with KServe and MLServer
-------------------------------------------------------------

> MLflow provides an easy-to-use interface for deploying modeles as a Flask-based inference server. You can deploy the same inference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MLflow provides an easy-to-use interface for deploying models within a Flask-based inference server. You can deploy the same inference
```

server to a Kubernetes cluster by containerizing it using the ``mlflow models build-docker`` command. However, this approach may not be scalable

> and could be unsuitable for production use cases. Flask is not designed for high performance, and manually managing multiple instances of

Reviewer: Can we say why Flask isn't ideally suited for ML inference (it's blocking) and how async gateways are far more optimized due to the potentially long-running nature of inference (depending on the model architecture, size, and optimization of the underlying library) and issues with scalability with a synchronous blocking web gateway?

Author: Sure! Will add brief explanation on why.

inference servers is backbreaking.

> Fortunately, MLflow offers a solution for this. MLflow supports alternative inference engine called `MLServer <https://mlserver.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately, MLflow offers a solution for this. MLflow provides an alternative inference engine that is better suited for larger-scale inference deployments with its support for `MLServer <https://mlserver.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_,
```

which enables one-step deployment to popular serverless model serving frameworks on Kubernetes, such as `KServe <https://kserve.github.io/website/>`_, and 
`Seldon Core <https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/>`_.

What is KServe?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> `KServe <https://kserve.github.io/website/>`_, formally known as KFServing, provides performant, scalable, and high-abstraction interfaces for common machine learning frameworks like Tensorflow, XGBoost, scikit-learn, and Pytorch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`KServe <https://kserve.github.io/website/>`_, formally known as KFServing, provides performant, scalable, and highly-abstracted interfaces for common machine learning frameworks like Tensorflow, XGBoost, scikit-learn, and Pytorch.
```

It offers advanced features that aid in operating large-scale machine learning systems, such as **autoscaling**, **canary rollout**, **A/B testing**, **monitoring**,
**explability**, and more, leveraging the Kubernetes ecosystem, including `KNative <https://knative.dev/>`_ and `Istio <https://istio.io/>`_.

> Benefit of using MLflow with KServe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Benefits of using MLflow with KServe
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

While KServe enables highly scalable and production-ready model serving, deplying your model there might require some effort.
MLflow simplifies the process of deploying models to a Kubernetes cluster with KServe and MLServer. Additionally, it offers seamless **end-to-end model management** 
as a single place to manage the entire ML lifecycle. This includes `experiment tracking <../../../tracking.html>`_, `model packaging <../../../models.html>`_,
`versioning <../../../model-registry.html>`_, `evaluation <../../../model-evaluation/index.html>`_, and `deployment <../../index.html>`_, which we will cover in this tutorial.

Step 1: Installing MLflow and Additional Dependencies
-----------------------------------------------------
First, please install mlflow to your local machine using the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

  pip install mlflow[extras]

``[extras]`` will install additional dependencies required for this tutorial including `mlserver <https://mlserver.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ and

> `scikit-learn <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/>`_. Note that scikit-learn is not required for deployment, just for training an example model for this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`scikit-learn <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/>`_. Note that scikit-learn is not required for deployment, just for training the example model used in this tutorial.
```

> You can check if mlflow is installed correctly by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check if MLflow is installed correctly by running:
```

  mlflow --version

Step 2: Setting Up a Kubernetes Cluster
---------------------------------------

.. tabs::

  .. tab:: Kubernetes Cluster

        If you already have access to a Kubernetes cluster, you can install KServe to your cluster by following `the official instructions <https://github.com/kserve/kserve#hammer_and_wrench-installation>`_.

  .. tab:: Local Machine Emulation

        You can follow `KServe QuickStart <https://kserve.github.io/website/latest/get_started/>`_ to set up a local cluster with `Kind <https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start>`_
        and install KServe on it.

Now that you have a Kubernetes cluster running as a deployment target, let's move on to creating the MLflow Model to deploy.

Step 3: Training the Model
--------------------------

In this tutorial, we will train and deploy a simple regression model that predicts the quality of wine.

Let's start from training a model with the default hyperparameters. Execute the following code in a notebook or as a Python script.

.. note::

  For the sake of convenience, we use the `mlflow.sklearn.autolog() <../../../python_api/mlflow.sklearn.html#mlflow.sklearn.autolog>`_ function.

>   This function let MLflow to automatically log the appropriate set of model parameters and metrics. To learn more about the autologging feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This function allows MLflow to automatically log the appropriate set of model parameters and metrics during training. To learn more about the auto-logging feature
```

  # Enable auto-logging to MLflow
  mlflow.sklearn.autolog()

  # Load wine quality dataset
  X, y = datasets.load_wine(return_X_y=True)
  X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.25)

  # Start a run and train a model
  with mlflow.start_run(run_name="default-params"):
      lr = ElasticNet()
      lr.fit(X_train, y_train)

      y_pred = lr.predict(X_test)
      metrics = eval_metrics(y_pred, y_test)

Now you have trained a model, let's check if the parameters and metrics are logged correctly, via the MLflow UI.
You can start the MLflow UI by running the following command in your terminal:

.. code-block:: bash

  mlflow ui --port 5000

Then visit http://localhost:5000 to open the UI.

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/deployment/tracking-ui-default.png
    :align: center
    :figwidth: 80%

Please open the experient named "wine-quality" on the left, then click the run named "default-params" in the table.
For this case, you should see parameters including ``alpha`` and ``l1_ratio`` and metrics like ``training_score`` and ``mean_absolute_error_X_test``.

Step 4: Running Hyperparameter Tuning
-------------------------------------

> 

Reviewer: We might want to add a ref to https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/traditional-ml/hyperparameter-tuning-with-child-runs/notebooks/hyperparameter-tuning-with-child-runs.html 
For people who want to see a more in-depth guide on hyperparameter tuning

Author: Great idea, will add!

Now that we have established a baseline model, let's attempt to improve its performance by tuning the hyperparameters.
We will conduct a simple grid search to identify the optimal combination of ``alpha`` and ``l1_ratio``.

.. code-block:: python

>   from itertools import product

Reviewer 2: Can we https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.model_selection.GridSearchCV.html instead?

Author: Sure (will use RandomizedSearchCV as per above comment)

  import warnings

  warnings.filterwarnings("ignore")

>   alphas = [0.2, 0.5, 1.0]

Reviewer: Grid Search is terrible. Can we do a Random Search instead? 
A fun paper to read on the topic: https://www.jmlr.org/papers/volume13/bergstra12a/bergstra12a.pdf

Author: Yeah no reason not doing it:)

and dependencies in a ready-to-deploy format.

.. note::

  In practice, it is also recommended to use `MLflow Model Registry <../../../model-registry.html>`_ for registering and managing your models.

Let's take a brief look at how this format appears. You can view the logged model through the ``Artifacts`` tab on the Run detail page.

.. code-block::

  model
  ├── MLmodel
  ├── model.pkl
  ├── conda.yaml
  ├── python_env.yaml
  └── requirements.txt

``model.pkl`` is the file containing the serialized model weight. ``MLmodel`` includes general metadata that instructs MLflow on how to load the model.
The other files specify the dependencies required to run the model.

.. note::

  If you opt for manual logging, you will need to log the model explicitly using the :py:func:`mlflow.sklearn.log_model <mlflow.sklearn.log_model>`
  function, as shown below:

  .. code-block:: python

    mlflow.sklearn.log_model(lr, "model")

.. _step-6-test-model-serving-locally:

Step 6: Testing Model Serving Locally
-------------------------------------

> Now that you are ready to deploy the model, but let's first test the model serving locally. As outlined in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before deploying the model, let's first test that the model can be served locally. As outlined in the
```

`Deploy MLflow Model Locally <../deploy-model-locally.html>`_, you can run a local inferecen server with just a single command.
Remember to use the ``enable-mlserver`` flag, which instructs MLflow to use MLServer as the inference server. This ensures the model runs in the
same manner as it would in Kubernetes.

.. code-block:: bash

  mlflow models serve -m runs:/<run_id_for_your_best_run>/model -p 1234 --enable-mlserver

> This command starts a local server listening on port 1234. You can send a request to the server using ``curl`` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command starts a local server listening on port 1234. You can send a request to the server using a ``curl`` command:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    $ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type:application/json" --data '{"inputs": [[14.23, 1.71, 2.43, 15.6, 127.0, 2.8, 3.06, 0.28, 2.29, 5.64, 1.04, 3.92, 1065.0]]' http://127.0.0.1:1234/invocations

    {"predictions": [-0.03416275504140387]}

For more information about the request format and response formats, refer to :ref:`Inference Server Specification <local-inference-server-spec>`.

Step 7: Deploying the Model to KServe
-------------------------------------

> Finally we are all set to deploy the model to the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we are all set to deploy the model to the Kubernetes cluster.
```

Create Namespace
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, create a test namespace for deploying KServe resources and your model:

.. code-block:: bash

  kubectl create namespace mlflow-kserve-test

Create Deployment Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Create a YAML file describing the model deployment to KServe.

There are two ways to specify the model for deployment in KServe configuration file:

1. Build a Docker image with the model and specify the image URI.
2. Specify the model URI directly (this only works if your model is stored in remote storage).

Please open the tabs below for details on each approach.

.. tabs::

  .. tab:: Using Docker Image

    .. raw:: html

      <h4>Register Docker Account</h4>

>     Since KServe cannot resolve locally built Docker image, you need to push the image to a Docker registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Since KServe cannot resolve a locally built Docker image, you need to push the image to a Docker registry.
```

    For this tutorial, we'll push the image to `Docker Hub <https://hub.docker.com/>`_, but you can use any other Docker registry,

>     such as `Amazon ECR <https://aws.amazon.com/ecr/>`_ or private registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    such as `Amazon ECR <https://aws.amazon.com/ecr/>`_ or a private registry.
```

>     If you don't have a Docker Hub account yet, create one at https://hub.docker.com/signup.

Reviewer: link

    This command builds a Docker image with the model and dependencies, tagging it as ``mlflow-wine-classifier:latest``.

    .. raw:: html

      <h4>Push the Docker Image</h4>

    After building the image, push it to Docker Hub (or to another registry using the appropriate command):

    .. code-block:: bash

      docker push <your_dockerhub_user_name>/mlflow-wine-classifier

    .. raw:: html

      <h4>Write Deployment Configuration</h4>

    Then create a YAML file like this:

    .. code-block:: yaml

      apiVersion: "serving.kserve.io/v1beta1"
      kind: "InferenceService"
      metadata:
        name: "mlflow-wine-classifier"
        namespace: "mlflow-kserve-test"
      spec:
        predictor:
          containers:
            - name: "mlflow-wine-classifier"
              image: "<your_docker_user_name>/mlflow-wine-classifier"
              ports:
                - containerPort: 8080
                  protocol: TCP
              env:
                - name: PROTOCOL
                  value: "v2"

  .. tab:: Using Model URI

    .. raw:: html

      <h4>Get Remote Model URI</h4>

>     KServe configuration allows direct specification of the model URI. However, it doesn't resolve MLflow-specific URI schema like ``runs:/`` and ``model:/``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    KServe configuration allows direct specification of the model URI. However, it doesn't resolve MLflow-specific URI schemas like ``runs:/`` and ``model:/``,
```

    nor local file URIs like ``file:///``. We need to specify the model URI in a remote storage URI format e.g. ``s3://xxx`` or ``gs://xxx``.
    By default, MLflow stores the model in the local file system, so you need to configure MLflow to store the model in remote storage.
    Please refer to `Artifact Store <../../../tracking.html#artifact-stores>`_ for setup instructions.

>     After configuring the artifact store, repeat the model training steps.

Reviewer: or load the best model from the model uri and re-log it from its in-memory object?

  .. tab:: Local Machine Emulation

      Typically, Kubernetes clusters expose services via LoadBalancer, but a local cluster created by ``kind`` doesn't have one.
      In this case, you can access the inference service via port-forwarding.

      Open a new terminal and run the following command to forward the port:

      .. code-block:: bash

        $ INGRESS_GATEWAY_SERVICE=$(kubectl get svc -n istio-system --selector="app=istio-ingressgateway" -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')
        $ kubectl port-forward -n istio-system svc/${INGRESS_GATEWAY_SERVICE} 8080:80

        Forwaring from 127.0.0.1:8080 -> 8080
        Forwarding from [::1]:8080 -> 8080

      Then, in the original terminal, send a test request to the server:

      .. code-block:: bash

        $ SERVICE_HOSTNAME=$(kubectl get inferenceservice mlflow-wine-classifier -n mlflow-kserve-test -o jsonpath='{.status.url}' | cut -d "/" -f 3)
        $ curl -v \
          -H "Host: ${SERVICE_HOSTNAME}" \
          -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
          -d @./test-input.json \
          http://localhost:8080/v2/models/mlflow-wine-classifier/infer

> Troubleshoot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Troubleshooting
```

**explability**, and more, leveraging the Kubernetes ecosystem, including `KNative <https://knative.dev/>`_ and `Istio <https://istio.io/>`_.

Benefit of using MLflow with KServe
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

While KServe enables highly scalable and production-ready model serving, deplying your model there might require some effort.
MLflow simplifies the process of deploying models to a Kubernetes cluster with KServe and MLServer. Additionally, it offers seamless **end-to-end model management** 
as a single place to manage the entire ML lifecycle. This includes `experiment tracking <../../../tracking.html>`_, `model packaging <../../../models.html>`_,
`versioning <../../../model-registry.html>`_, `evaluation <../../model-evaluation.html>`_, and `deployment <../../deployments.html>`_, which we will cover in this tutorial.

Step 1: Installing MLflow and Additional Dependencies
-----------------------------------------------------
First, please install mlflow to your local machine using the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

  pip install mlflow[extras]

> ``[extra]`` will install additional dependencies required for this tutorial including `mlserver <https://mlserver.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``[extras]`` will install additional dependencies required for this tutorial including `mlserver <https://mlserver.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ and
```

You can check if mlflow is installed correctly by running:

.. code-block:: bash

  mlflow --version

Step 2: Setting Up a Kubernetes Cluster
---------------------------------------

.. tabs::

  .. tab:: Kubernetes Cluster

        If you already have access to a Kubernetes cluster, you can install KServe to your cluster by following `the official instructions <https://github.com/kserve/kserve#hammer_and_wrench-installation>`_.

  .. tab:: Local Machine Emulation

        You can follow `KServe QuickStart <https://kserve.github.io/website/latest/get_started/>`_ to set up a local cluster with `Kind <https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start>`_
        and install KServe on it.

Now that you have a Kubernetes cluster running as a deployment target, let's move on to creating the MLflow Model to deploy.

Step 3: Training the Model
--------------------------

In this tutorial, we will train a model that predicts the quality of wine based on quantitative features.
We use the `wine quality dataset <http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/wine-quality/winequality-red.csv>`_ from the UCI Machine Learning Repository,

> and `ElasticNet <https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.linear_model.ElasticNet.html>`_, a simple linear regression model.

Reviewer 2: I'd remove this part and just say `train a simple regression model`. The dataset and model types don't seem important in this tutorial.

Author: Make sense, will remove!

First, let's train a single model with the default hyperparameters. Execute the following code in a notebook or as a Python script.

.. note::

  For the sake of convenience, we use the `mlflow.sklearn.autolog() <../../../api/python/mlflow.sklearn.html#mlflow.sklearn.autolog>`_ function.
  This function let MLflow to automatically log the appropriate set of model parameters and metrics. To learn more about the autologging feature
  or how to log manually instead, see the `MLflow Tracking documentation <../../../tracking.html>`_.

.. code-block:: python

  import mlflow

>   import mlflow.sklearn

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

      return rmse, mae, r2

  # Set th experiment name
  mlflow.set_experiment("wine-quality")

  # Enable auto-logging to MLflow
  mlflow.sklearn.autolog()

  # Load wine quality dataset
  X, y = datasets.load_wine(return_X_y=True)
  X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(X, y, test_size=0.25)

  # Start a run and train a model
  with mlflow.start_run(run_name="default-params"):
      lr = ElasticNet()
      lr.fit(X_train, y_train)

      y_pred = lr.predict(X_test)
      metrics = eval_metrics(y_pred, y_test)

Now you have trained a model, let's check if the parameters and metrics are logged correctly, via the MLflow UI.
You can start the MLflow UI by running the following command in your terminal:

.. code-block:: bash

  mlflow ui --port 5000

Then visit http://localhost:5000 to open the UI.

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/deployment/tracking-ui-default.png
    :align: center
    :figwidth: 80%

Please open the experient named "wine-quality" on the left, then click the run named "default-params" in the table.
For this case, you should see parameters including ``alpha`` and ``l1_ratio`` and metrics like ``training_score`` and ``mean_absolute_error_X_test``.

> Step 4: Running Hyperparameter Tuning

Reviewer 2: Is this step necessary?

Author: I initially had the same thought for the original tutorial, but ended up not removing this and positioned this page as an end-to-end tutorial. The main reason is that pure deployment steps are pretty much covered by the partner's docs, so the main audience I expect here is ppl who already know about k8s but not much about MLflow. Hence I thought it's not a bad idea to stretch a bit to demonstrate MLflow capability in realistic scenario - single training run doesn't look nice in the UI indeed. For ppl who already have context, I added a info box to tell skip to Step 6:)

Reviewer: I think that giving the UI some runs is a good idea :)

Reviewer 2: Sounds good, let's keep this step

Remember to use the ``enable-mlserver`` flag, which instructs MLflow to use MLServer as the inference server. This ensures the model runs in the
same manner as it would in Kubernetes.

.. code-block:: bash

  mlflow models serve -m runs:/<run_id_for_your_best_run>/model -p 1234 --enable-mlserver

This command starts a local server listening on port 1234. You can send a request to the server using ``curl`` command:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type:application/json" --data '{"inputs": [[14.23, 1.71, 2.43, 15.6, 127.0, 2.8, 3.06, 0.28, 2.29, 5.64, 1.04, 3.92, 1065.0]]' http://127.0.0.1:1234/invocations

    {"predictions": [-0.03416275504140387]}

For more information about the request format and response formats, refer to :ref:`Inference Server Specification <local-inference-server-spec>`.

Step 7: Deploying the Model to KServe
-------------------------------------

Finally we are all set to deploy the model to the Kubernetes cluster.

Create Namespace
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, create a test namespace for deploying KServe resources and your model:

.. code-block:: bash

>   $ kubectl create namespace mlflow-kserve-test

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  kubectl create namespace mlflow-kserve-test
```

because we don't use `$` in other code blocks.

Author: True, will remove remaining ones as well
